// Copyright (c) 2007-2023, Southbeach Solutions Ltd
// Hints and Tips for Southbeach Modeller v4
// www.southbeachinc.com
// support@southbeachinc.com

// DO NOT EDIT THIS FILE, IT IS UPDATED WITH NEW RELEASES

Welcome to Southbeach Modeller. Our customers are our #1 proritiy. If you need help, please write to support@southbeachinc.com
Southbeach is a powerful visual modelling application with an embedded rules engine. Visit our website for details. Help menu or F1.
Please check you are running the latest release. See menu Help-Check for new releases.
If your email address changes, please re-register your software. See menu License-Register.
Found a bug? Need a new feature? Click on the phone icon (top right of toolbar) or write to feedback@southbeachinc.com
Hover help and tooltips are provided throughout the UI. If you have questions, please write to support@southbeachinc.com
The functionality of Southbeach in organised in six panels: the canvas, explorer, toolbox, notes, creativity and reports.
If you cannot see a panel, see the View menu. Also, shortcut key F11 will show or hide all panels. 
Some panels allow additional working tabs as required. [+] For example, a new canvas for a sub-model, additional ideation transcripts. 
The creativity and reports panels split in two (upper and lower) to allow for editing of model-specific rules. Right mouse Show/Hide editor (shortcut F2). 
Shortcuts and Alt keys are provided for common functions. A full list is provided in folder _help/shortcuts.pdf
For example, F9 opens the most recently modified file. F5 refreshes a report if pressed inside a reporting panel.  
Southbeach models are stored in .sbm files, a compact XML format. A single .sbm file packages one or more models together with their notes, creativity rules, reports and generated output (ideation). 
The right mouse button plays a vital role in the UI, access to many additional functions without cluttering the interface. 
The canvas, tabs, lists and tree views, as well as many dialog fields and modelling objects respond to right mouse.
The mouse wheel slides, pans and zooms the canvas via Ctrl/Shift key combinations. Also see the View menu for a Fisheye tool.
Dragging with the mouse is used extensively in the UI. For example, to tag an object, drag a tag from the Toolbox or Explorer to an existing object. Drag a tag to the canvas to create a new tagged object.
Dragging over an area of the canvas selects a group of objects. Hold down the Shift key to extend the current selection. 
See the Edit menu for additional selection functions, e.g. 'select like me' selects objects with similar attributes to the selected object. 
To move an object or group of objects, drag from the middle of an object. Notice how the mouse cursor changes to a hand icon.
To make copies of a selected object or objects, hold down Ctrl and drag the mouse. 
To add an effect arrow from one object to another, drag from the edge of the object to the affected object.
To add an effect from one object and simultaneously create a new affected object, drag from the edge of the existing object to a blank area of the canvas.
Holding down Crtl or Shift when adding an effect between objects automatically selects the reversed or counter effect. These options are also in the effect dialog.
To suppress the event dialog when modelling, select the heart icon in the toolbar. The default effect for the model is used. 
Right mouse on one or more objects or effects is a quick way to change their semantic properties.
Objects and effects have handles for resizing, repositioning or moving an effect from one object to another. Primary and secondary handles are distinguished if multiple objects are selected. 
Double-clicking also plays an important role in the AI. For example, double-click on the canvas to create a new default object. 
To add a user-defined label to an effect arrow, click on or near the selected arrow head where it meets the connected object.
Hover the mouse over any object (agent or effect) for a floating tooltip. The meaning and any tags are displayed.
Watch the application window, bottom bar, left, for additional messages, e.g. zoom level; escape (ESC key) from certain functions.
The Find: box in the toolbar supports substring, "exact string" and ^<notation pattern> searches over objects and effects. Refer to the MyCreativity manual. 
The search bar in each of the toolbox tabs also provides its own substring and "exact string" matches.
Copy/paste content into and out of Southbeach as text, images and URLs. All available drags are described in _help/shortcuts.pdf
The system clipboard is used to convert text to objects, objects to images and to link URLs to objects.
There is often more than one way to achieve a result in Southbeach. Try dragging. Try right-mouse. 
Enjoy using Southbeach Modeller. We love to hear from our users and will engage with anyone who has a project where Southbeach could make a difference. Write to support@southbeachinc.com